# CSE
CoDeSys Symbol Exporter


**What is CSE?**  
CSE allows you to strip a symbol file generated by CoDeSys, to keep only the symbols you need,
avoiding your UI design software to be polluted with tons of useless variables.
<hr>

**Why to use CSE?**  
CSE is more handy to use than the CoDeSys symbol configuration, because it just requires one word
per variable in your source file to export a symbol.
It makes your source code easier to read, because you instantaneously see what symbol is exported,
and what one is not.
It allows you to import/export your source code, without loosing your symbol configuration (you have to 
configure all again with the CoDeSys tool).

In other words, CSE makes you:
- save a lot of time
- avoid repetitive operations
- improve the reliability of your development process
<hr>

**Prerequisites**  
The symbol file (.SYM_XML) you want to strip must be in the same directory than the associated
CoDeSys project file (.pro).
<hr>

**How to do?**  
In your source code, just add "EXPORT" in the commentary of a variable you want to export.
Then type "CSE \<symbol file\>.SYM_XML" in a command prompt.

CSE will generate a "\<symbol file\> - EXPORT.SYM_XML" file, containing only the variables you want.
<hr>

**Other ways to do**  
There are two other ways to easily generate the stripped symbol files:
* create a macro in CoDeSys, which calls CSE with the symbol file as parameter, and add this macro as a post-build step
* in the Windows explorer, associate the .SYM_XML extension with CSE. Then you will generate the needed file by clicking the .SYM_XML file produced by CoDeSys
<hr>

**Sources and license**  
CSE is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License v3.
You can download it from here: https://github.com/Folcogh/CSE/releases
Sources are available here: https://github.com/Folcogh/CSE/
The project has been build with Visual Studio Community 2017
